# GitHub-Education-for-Students


# Introduction
Have you ever heard or come across “GitHub Education for Students”? Well, some of you may have heard of this exclusive program GitHub has created for students aspiring to grow in the tech field, while some may have not. Therefore, for those who may not have heard of this wonderful program which I found exciting to share, it might interest you know that as a student, you can use GitHub to work on your school projects with real-world developer tools that will make your projects impressive and stand out in such a way that it can be presentable and acceptable in the tech industry. Not only that, GitHub has also prepared platforms and ways to guide you to be successful in this journey and have also partnered with big tech companies that have made their real-world developer tools freely accessible to students.
Considering your work will be open source, as GitHub is an open source community, I will also like to add a possibility I presume that as a student, if you work hard to make your project stand out, you may stand a great chance to either gain scholarship grants or sponsorship to work on other bigger projects provided by your school or probably even get trained or hired by these big tech companies, who have partnered with GitHub. That being said, let me give you a rundown of what GitHub Education for Students is all about. Enjoy reading!!!

# What is GitHub Education for Students?
GitHub Education for Students is a great platform created by GitHub to offer and enable students gain some real-world experience whilst gaining their campus learnings. This gives students the ability to build a great portfolio, acquire good skills, connect and grow good networks in the tech industry.
This provides students with a good opportunity to collaborate with others and enable them build a good portfolio that displays real-world experience on their school projects. It is also a wonderful encourager and a great experience for students in the tech field to better prepare themselves and develop a good foundation while on campus, as it will propel them for greater opportunities after graduation (See link https://help.github.com/en/github/teaching-and-learning-with-github-education/about-github-education-for-students for reference).  
In addition, GitHub not only gives you room to gain good experience as a student, it also creates a platform to make you a Campus Expert. Becoming a Campus Expert with GitHub trains you to learn Public Speaking, Technical Writing, Community Leadership and acquire good Software Development Skills that will enable you improve your campus. This not only empowers you to become a Campus Expert, but to also empower and mentor other students that desire growth in the tech field (See link https://education.github.com/students/experts for reference). 
Furthermore, GitHub also provides students with support of up to a thousand dollar ($1,000) grant, to throw hackathons, which is a tech event where students / people in tech or those aspiring to be in the tech field come together to learn, build, share technical projects and even engage in some project competitions which could attract gifts to be won or scholarship grants. Such events with the support of some tech companies, give students room to connect and network with both fellow students and staff these tech companies, gain mentorship and even internship opportunities which would aid the student’s growth in the tech field and also acquire work experience skills (See link https://education.github.com/students for reference). 

# Benefits of GitHub Education for Students
To enable students achieve success in their tech journey, GitHub has partnered with some generous tech companies who have made their tools available for students to access for free. These tools are not just limited to be basic tools for students, but are real-world developer tools, which are used by big tech companies in developing software applications. Students who get this pack, upgrade to GitHub Pro at no charge, coupled with other exclusive offers from GitHub Education partners. Interestingly, these packs cover almost forty-five thousand dollar ($45,000) worth of savings to the students (See the following links for more details: https://education.github.com/#:~:text=Real%2Dworld%20tools%2C%20engaged%20students,next%20generation%20of%20software%20development.; https://education.github.com/pack; https://github.blog/2019-08-20-the-github-student-developer-pack-is-back/).
    
# Getting Started
To get started with GitHub Education for Students, you have to first apply for a Student Developer Pack. To be eligible for the Student Developer Pack, you must:
•	Be currently enrolled in a degree or diploma granting course of study such as a high school, secondary school, college, university, homeschool, or similar educational institution
•	Have a verifiable school-issued email address or upload documents that prove your current student status
•	Have a GitHub user account
•	Be at least 13 years old
In addition, you have to provide documents that prove your current student status and the document should include: a picture of your school ID, class schedule, transcript, and affiliation or enrollment verification letter. Also, you may be prompted to re-verify your current student academic status periodically, during your tenure as a student (See link https://help.github.com/en/github/teaching-and-learning-with-github-education/applying-for-a-student-developer-pack for more details). 

# Conclusion
In conclusion, I must say that GitHub is doing a commendable job in building the next generation of software developers by building a great platform for aspiring tech students, to prepare them for the task ahead at an early stage. I wish this was made available in my time *smiles*, however like it’s said, better late than never – and just as a quote by Bruce Lee says “If you always put limit on everything you do, physical or anything else. It will spread into your work and into your life. There are no limits. There are only plateaus, and you must not stay there, you must go beyond them”.
I’ll end by saying this: “If you want to grow in life, you have to keep learning, and you have to keep pushing. There are no limits to learning and acquiring new skills in life, irrespective of the age. Education is limitless and as long as life remains, there are always new things to learn”.

